The Devil is to be Aerially Assaulted by Flying Exorcist Priest
Waves of violence, corruption and crime in a Columbian city are to be addressed with an audacious exorcism by a Catholic bishop who plans to launch holy water over the city from a helicopter...
Polish priest blames 'devil' when confronted by alleged victim "Father, I wanted to look you in the eye ... I wanted to ask you why?" demands Anna Misiewicz as she confronts the parish priest she says abused her when she was just seven and eight years old....
Polish priest blames 'devil' as he's confronted by alleged victim whose life was ruined "Father, I wanted to look you in the eye ... I wanted to ask you why?" demands Anna Misiewicz as she confronts the parish priest she says abused her when she was just seven and eight years old....
German priest causes church walkout as preaches for predator priest forgiveness The cleric said he wanted to tell parishioners about the biblically important meaning of forgiveness. He regretted that predator priests were labelled "criminals" but many of his congregation walked out of the church....
Jackpot! Devil May Cry 5 is Just $40, Right Now Right now you can pick up the beautifully bloody Devil May Cry 5 for the PS4 and Xbox One for a low $40. Kotaku says it offers "Fantastic combat, stylish cutscenes, each playable character feels unique. Also: it's just fuckin' fun." This current pric...
Kylo Ren Was Made For Devil May Cry 5 Sometimes a mod is worth looking at because it's funny, or challenges your ideas about a game. In this case, a Kylo Ren mod for Devil May Cry 5 is about finding two things that were made for each other....
Venezuela Made A Pact With The VAR Devil For most of my lifetime, Venezuela has been chum for the sharks of South America. La Vinotinto have never qualified for a World Cup, have never even made the final of a Copa America, and generally do not put up much of a fight, particularly against t...
Sympathy for the devil: how The Handmaid's Tale finally goes too far In the third season of the dystopian drama, the writers are asking us to feel empathy for villainous characters, a final straw for a show that's already outstayed its welcomeEven if you haven't personally seen The Handmaid's Tale, Hulu's dystopian re...
Avril Lavigne's love affair with 'the Devil' is complicated Despite her signature thick, black eyeliner, ripped tees and bobby pin ornaments, "Sk8er Boi" and "Complicated" singer Avril Lavigne is in fact hopelessly un-edgy. So it's actually quite tickling to hear that she's...
Here's the first teaser for Rob Zombie's Devil's Rejects sequel, 3 From Hell Rob Zombie's long-simmering conclusion to his gory tale of the Firefly clan is on its way. 3 From Hell, a sequel to 2003's House of 1000 Corpses and 2005's The Devil's Rejects, wrapped filming earlier this year and now has a teaser, one in which ...
Marijuana, Reefer, Weed: How Language Keeps Evolving for the Devil's Lettuce As long as people have smoked the plant, they've debated what to call it. And now marketers for the legal marijuana industry want everyone to say "cannabis."...
Fortnite Throw Flying Disc in Week 3 Season 9: How to throw and catch the Flying Disc Toy? Fortnite Week 3 Challenges for Season 9 go live later today and this time around Epic Games wants players to Throw The Flying Disc Toy And Catch It Before It Lands. Here's how you do it!...
DOOM Eternal gameplay world premiere: Devil horns in the air—literally If your workplace has rules that restrict images of virtual blood and gore, consider this your last warning: DOOM Eternal only looks more gruesome from here on out. [credit: id Software ...
Women's World Cup: England relax while Kerr adds devil to shock tactics Phil Neville cancelled training before the Scotland showdown but he knows their manager is a force to be reckoned withGuests soaking up the sun by the rooftop pools of England's and Scotland's respective team hotels on the Promenade des Anglais can w...
Good Omens review – Sheen and Tennant fight the devil with dill sauce The two leads shine as an angel and a demon facing down the apocalypse. But this adaptation of Terry Pratchett and Neil Gaiman's novel goes to hell when they're not aroundIn my heart I believe that Michael Sheen will never be better than he was as Li...
Spirits were high for the Overlook Film Festival's druggy, devil-worshipping return to New Orleans Horror, once the leather-jacket-clad adolescent sulking in the corner of the film world, has grown up. The Oscars have been collected, the box-office receipts have been counted, and mainstream legitimacy has been established. What now? For every ho...
Cop's son who allegedly assaulted another boy was let off 'without consequences' An NYPD lieutenant's 13-year-old son threatened to kill another boy, then gashed his head with a metal object but was let go and not charged, the victim's parents allege....
Virginia dad fires 39 shots at naked 'devil' who broke into family's home on first night living there: report A Virginia dad fired 39 warning shots and sparred with a naked woman who called herself "the devil" after she allegedly broke into the family's home on their first night living there, according to reports. ...
| US writer says Trump sexually assaulted her in mid-90s An advice columnist for Elle fashion magazine said in an account published Friday that Donald Trump sexually assaulted her in the dressing room of a New York department store more than two decades ago....
Kentucky State Police Say Trooper Assaulted BATH COUNTY, Ky. (LEX 18)– A trooper was stabbed in the leg during an altercation in Salt Lick. Kentucky State Police say that on Wednesday, Trooper Nathan Roark and Trooper Tyler Smith, along Bath County Sheriff Jesse Stewart, attempted to ser...
"He took me for himself," woman says of priest. Laura Pontikes says her priest groomed her into a sexual relationship, absolving her of adultery while seeking big donations. And she says the man responsible for the U.S. church's response to clergy abuse reneged on promised punishment. (June...
US' first black priest, an ex-slave, may be on his way to sainthood Pope Francis on Wednesday deemed the first known black Roman Catholic priest in the United States to be "venerable," positioning the former slave for possible sainthood....
Andrew Scott: 'I'm Fleabag and she's the priest? I'd still have sex with him' Everyone's favourite hot priest ingeniously skirts around what he's doing in Black Mirror: SmithereensWhat happens to our online identities when we die?What can you tell us about Black Mirror: Smithereens without giving the game away?Black Mirror is ...
Allegations against top priest under review after AP report The Catholic Church in Texas says it is reviewing allegations that a top monsignor continued to hear a married woman's confessions after luring her into a sexual relationship, a potentially serious crime under church law....
Homophobic attacks must stop, say women assaulted on London bus Exclusive: We felt an obligation to share our story, Melania Geymonat and Chris tell the Guardian"We are pretty tired of talking about getting punched in the face," says Chris, a 29-year-old American woman whose second name you don't know but whose f...
Off-duty traffic cop sexually assaulted on L Train: police A creep sexually assaulted an off-duty traffic cop on an L train — while she was headed to her daughter's graduation, police said Thursday. The 37-year-old mom was getting into a Manhattan-bound train at Bedford Avenue in Brooklyn Wednesd...
More Journalists Are Being Killed, Arrested and Assaulted as Authoritarianism Spreads Myanmar, nudged by the conscience of the world, recently released two Reuters journalists imprisoned for more than 500 days – good news in what otherwise has been a dismal period for media freedom. The 2019 Press Freedom Index by Reporters With...
Ellen DeGeneres Opens Up About Being Sexually Assaulted as a Teenager Ellen DeGeneres has shared that she was sexually assaulted by her stepfather. During the talk show host's interview on David Letterman's Netflix series, My Next Guest Needs No......
Ex of Fiat heir says he was sexually assaulted at transgender orgy Lapo Elkann's ex-boyfriend claims he was sexually assaulted and left with "severe emotional distress" following a cocaine-fueled transgender orgy....
Drunk SC woman assaulted husband because he denied her A/C: cops A South Carolina woman attacked her husband with a glass jar on Tuesday because he stopped her from driving to an air-conditioned hotel with their children while intoxicated, police said....
Lawyer for former priest denies new sex abuse allegations LANSING, Mich. (AP) — A lawyer for a former Catholic priest facing sexual abuse charges as part of the Michigan attorney general's ongoing investigation into clergy abuse is denying the new allegations. Vincent DeLorenzo, who served several Mic...
1st black priest in US, ex-slave, positioned for sainthood SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) — Pope Francis has positioned for sainthood a former slave and the first known black Roman Catholic priest in America. The pontiff on Wednesday declared the Rev. Augustine Tolton, of Quincy, to be "venerable." The D...
Former Michigan priest charged with 6 counts of sex crimes A Catholic priest who admitted when he resigned from a Flint-area parish that he had sexually abused a child has been charged with several counts of sexual assault dating back decades....
Prominent Detroit priest removed from ministry Detroit's Roman Catholic archdiocese removes a prominent priest from public ministry after reviewing what it describes as a "credible allegation" that he had abused a child decades ago. (July 8) ...
US judge orders man who assaulted Sikh shopkeeper to learn about religion An Oregon man who assaulted a Sikh shopkeeper must attend a Sikh parade and learn about their religion and culture. "Bigotry is the result of ignorance," the judge said....
Lesbian couple assaulted on bus: Attackers viewed us as 'sexual objects' The lesbian couple attacked by a homophobic mob on a London bus said it was clear the men who punched and robbed them viewed the pair as "sexual objects" there to "entertain." In a new interview, Melania Geymonat, 28, and her partner Chris, 29, said ...
Man sexually assaulted crying teen on international flight: authorities A Massachusetts man has been indicted on a federal criminal charge for allegedly sexually assaulting a 19-year-old woman sitting next to him and crying on a United flight from Japan to the US, according to a report. George Seryogin was accused of gro...
Mom assaulted in Dominican Republic accuses resort of victim blaming The Delaware mom who said she survived a savage beating at a Dominican Republic resort accused hotel honchos of victim-blaming when they questioned parts of her story this week. "[We] feel confident that viewers and the public can see that the hotel'...
Police: Man drugged, assaulted girl, posted naked video MIRAMAR, Fla. (AP) — Police in South Florida say an 18-year-old man drugged and sexually assaulted a 15-year-old girl he met at a party and posted a naked video of her on Instagram. Miramar police say Jorge Martinez gave the girl Percocet on Monday a...
Rikers guard claims she was sexually assaulted by male boss A Rikers Island guard claims she was sexually assaulted by a male boss, then faced retaliation when a supervisor friend of his did nothing as an \u00ADinmate menaced her. Correction officer Joanne Vega claims in a lawsuit that Capt. Edwich Jasmin ordered ...
Cops nab teen linked to group who assaulted off-duty firefighter Cops nabbed a teen in connection with the assault on an off-duty city firefighter on the Upper East Side, police said Thursday. Damir Johnson, 17, was arrested shortly before 10 p.m. Wednesday after police received an anonymous CrimeStoppers tip that...
Teen who allegedly assaulted firefighter was awaiting sentencing for burglary Where there was smoke … The teen who allegedly assaulted an off-duty firefighter last weekend was roaming the streets at the time because a judge had released him without bail for a robbery nine days earlier — even though he was already awaitin...
Civic Official Assaulted By BJP Leader Akash Vijayvargiya Hospitalised The Indore civic body officer attacked by BJP leader Akash Vijayvargiya with a cricket bat Wednesday has been admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of a private hospital here, a doctor said on......
Gay couple assaulted, robbed by people using homophobic slur: Police WASHINGTON — A Washington, D.C., man says he and his boyfriend were attacked by a group of more than 10 people, some of whom used homophobic slurs. Karl Craven tells The Washington Post and he and Braden Brecht had just left a city bar Sunday morning...
Catholic priest hospitalized after knife attack in Poland WARSAW, Poland — Authorities in Poland say that a Roman Catholic priest is hospitalized in serious condition after a man attacked him with a knife. Krzysztof Zaporowski, police spokesman in the southwestern city of Wroclaw, said the attacker approach...
Suspect identified in murder of defrocked New Jersey priest A suspect in the murder of a defrocked New Jersey priest who was killed in Nevada after his name appeared on a list of those credibly accused of sexual abuse has been identified, police said. Derrick Decoste, 25, is wanted on charges of murder with a...
| WATCH: Prominent Detroit priest removed from ministry Detroit's Roman Catholic archdiocese has removed a prominent priest from public ministry after reviewing what it describes as a "credible allegation" that he had abused a child decades ago. WATCH NOW....
Catholic priest in hospital after knife attack in Poland WARSAW, Poland (AP) — Authorities in Poland say that a Roman Catholic priest is hospitalized in serious condition after a man attacked him with a knife. Krzysztof Zaporowski, police spokesman in the southwestern city of Wroclaw, said the attacker app...
Fugitive ex-priest to face Arizona child sex charges A fugitive former Catholic priest who fled to Italy and vanished after being indicted on child sex charges in Arizona in 2003 has been found and returned to Arizona, authorities said on Friday....
Catholic priest stabbed on church steps in Poland The assailant was arrested, but his motive remains unclear. The priest has undergone surgery and is now stable, Wroclaw University Hospital has said....
Ex-priest in molestation case returned to Arizona from Italy PHOENIX (AP) — A former Catholic priest who fled from Arizona to Italy in 2003 after being indicted on child molestation charges has been returned to the state. The Maricopa County Attorney's Office announced that 70-year-old Joseph John Henn a...
Instagram priest takes to Venezuela's streets 'with the people' Venezuelan priest Luis Antonio Salazar has built a solid social media following over the past two years preaching the Bible over Instagram, breaking the mold of the country's conservative Catholic church....
Poland: Statue of priest accused of abuse removed A statue featuring a Polish priest suspected of child sex abuse was removed from the grounds of a major Catholic pilgrimage site in central Poland, days ahead of a meeting between Polish bishops and the Vatican's sex crimes investigator....
Woman killed 70-year-old victim, sexually assaulted her with umbrella: cops A New Jersey woman was busted in the sickening murder of a 70-year-old woman — who was sexually assaulted with an umbrella and robbed of a mere $15, according to prosecutors and a new report. Caroline Beckert, 40, of Old Bridge, was charged with firs...
Lizzo Says a 'Racist' Security Guard Assaulted Her Stylists After Summerland Performance MILWAUKEE (AP) — Singer-rapper Lizzo says a security guard tackled two members of her staff to the ground and used hurtful language just moments after her performance at Milwaukee's Summerfest. Lizzo late Thursday tweeted the guard "...
Writer E. Jean Carroll says Donald Trump sexually assaulted her in the mid-1990s E. Jean Carroll says in a new book that President Donald Trump sexually assaulted her in a dressing room of the Bergdorf Goodman store in New York City in the mid-1990s. The White House strongly denied her claims....
Long Island woman public-safety officer sexually assaulted her A Long Island woman claims a Patchogue public-safety officer sexually assaulted her. She alleges she was walking on the village's Main Street in April 2018 when Dennis Fajardo pulled up and ordered her into his car. Fajardo, who does not carry a weap...
Lizzo Says a 'Racist' Security Guard Assaulted Her Stylists After Summerfest Performance MILWAUKEE (AP) — Singer-rapper Lizzo says a security guard tackled two members of her staff to the ground and used hurtful language just moments after her performance at Milwaukee's Summerfest. Lizzo late Thursday tweeted the guard "...
Man tried to climb White House fence, assaulted police officer, authorities say A suspect was stopped by Secret Service agents Friday night as he allegedly tried to climb over a White House security barrier, according to reports. ...
Roman Catholic diocese suspends priest accused of misconduct FALL RIVER, Mass. (AP) — A Roman Catholic diocese in Massachusetts says a longtime priest has been suspended amid an allegation of sexual misconduct. The Herald News reports that Fall River Bishop Edgar Moreira da Cunha said in an email Sunday that F...
Suspect in defrocked priest's slaying arrested in Michigan A man jailed in Michigan is suspected of shooting and killing a 70-year-old defrocked priest accused of sexually assaulting minors. ...
Priest begs gays not to leave church over bishop's tweet A priest in Rhode Island has asked parishioners not to leave the church over a tweet by Rhode Island's Roman Catholic bishop urging Catholics to not support or attend LGBTQ Pride Month events....
Pope Moves First African-American Priest Closer to Sainthood Pope Francis decreed the "heroic virtues" of the first African-American Catholic priest, thereby bringing a man who was born into slavery in the 19th century a step closer to becoming the first African-American saint....
French priest defrocked for abusing Scouts in landmark case France's Catholic Church has stripped the priest at the center of a high-level misconduct scandal of his clerical status while finding him guilty of sexually abusing Boy Scouts...
Lesbian Couple Assaulted on London Bus By Four Men Who Had Demanded The Women Kiss 'So They Could Enjoy Watching' Police in London are calling for witnesses after a couple was assaulted and robbed in a homophobic attack on a London bus. Melania Geymonat, one of the victims in the attack, posted a photo on Facebook of her and her girlfriend Chris, covered in bloo...
Transgender woman recently assaulted on camera found shot dead in Dallas Body of Muhlaysia Booker was found in a street on Saturday and no suspect has been identified, police saidA 23-year-old transgender woman who was seen on a widely circulated video being beaten in front of a crowd of people has been found shot dead in...
15-Year-Old Girl Says a Border Patrol Agent Sexually Assaulted Her at an Arizona Camp A 15-year-old migrant girl says a border agent sexually assaulted her during what was supposed to be a routine pat down at a Yuma, Arizona facility....
Wayne Newton testifies he fired a shot as burglars assaulted family dog, then fled Longtime Las Vegas entertainer Wayne Newton told a jury he fired a shot to scare away two burglars that he encountered fleeing his home a year ago. ...
Augustine Tolton, Ex-Slave and First Black Priest in U.S., Takes Step to Sainthood The Catholic Church said it was reviewing a miracle said to be attributed to Father Tolton, whom Pope Francis put on the path to sainthood Wednesday....
Prominent Detroit priest removed from pulpit amid allegations of sex abuse The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Detroit said Sunday that it removed a prominent priest from public ministry after reviewing what it described as a "credible allegation" that he had sexually abused a child decades ago....
Suspect in Defrocked Priest's Killing Had Responded to Ad for Male Wrestlers, Police Say The police have obtained a warrant charging Derrick M. Decoste, 25, with murder and robbery in the killing of John Capparelli at his Nevada home in March....
Maya Gateway to the World Below: Balankanchè Cave, Throne of the Tiger Priest Caves are central to the cosmologies of many world cultures, used by humans from the dawn of time. ...
Vatican omitted part of pope's remarks about sex abuse priest McCarrick VATICAN CITY — The Vatican communications office released only a partial transcript of Pope Francis' comments about what he knew of disgraced ex-Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, omitting his claim that he didn't remember if he had been told i...
Australia's 'Egg Boy,' Who Assaulted a Senator, Is Giving Legal Defense Funds to Mosque Shooting Victims Teenage protester Will Connolly, dubbed "egg boy" after video of him smashing an egg on the head of an Australian senator went viral, announced Tuesday that he was donating the $70,000 raised for his legal expenses to victims of the New Z...
Florida women assaulted Burger King workers for not giving them free fries: cops They do say "have it your way." A career criminal and her girlfriend allegedly attacked two Burger King employees in Miami for refusing to give them free French fries, according to the Miami Dade County Police Department. Natasha Ethel Ba...
Catholic priest to drop holy water from helicopter 'to exorcise demons from city' DEMONS lurking in the Colombian city of Buenaventura beware as a catholic priest is all set to rid it of evil by dropping holy water on it in a mass exorcism....
Augustine Tolton, Ex-Slave and First Black Catholic Priest in U.S., Takes Step to Sainthood The Catholic Church said it was reviewing a miracle said to be attributed to Father Tolton, whom Pope Francis put on the path to sainthood Wednesday....
Meet the 'Scribbling Vicar,' the Priest Who Serves as Aston Martin's In-House Artist Ever think you've had a varied career? Well, you've probably got nothing on Aston Martin's artist in residence, the Rev. Adam Gompertz. Or as he's known, the scribbling vicar. I caught up with him at the Goodwood Festival of Speed to find out a bit m...
Top US cardinal reassigned abusive priest and dismissed sex abuse case, woman claims Texas woman Laura Pontikes reported her abusive priest to a top cardinal, but instead of removing the priest, Cardinal Daniel DiNardo reassigned him. ...
Florida man, 18, allegedly drugged, sexually assaulted girl, 15, posted naked video of her online: police A Florida man was arrested on Wednesday after he allegedly drugged a 15-year-old girl, sexually assaulted her, and posted a naked video of her on Instagram, investigators said....
Lawyer for abuse victims demands New York Archdiocese release 'predator priest' data A lawyer representing childhood victims of alleged sex abuse on Monday demanded the Archdioceses of New York release "secret files" on "predator priests" — before a one-year statute of limitations rule expires. "We're launching a petition today...
Who's scarier in 'Child's Play': The original Chucky or Mark Hamill's devil doll? Mark Hamill voices the new killer doll Chucky in a reboot of 'Child's Play,' but let's break down how it compares to the original 1988 horror classic. ...
How to Reduce Waste While Flying Airlines produce a lot of garbage. Think about the plastic wraps covering your meal, your pair of headphones and blanket, as well as the straws, napkins, and sugar packets that litter the aisles. United Continental Holdings Inc., which owns United Ai...
France's New Flying Tax Gets It Backwards Starting in 2020, flying out of France—both domestic and international, but not for connecting passengers—will incur an additional surcharge dubbed an Ecotax, because the revenue raised will go towards "eco-friendly transport infrastructure" such as...
When will flying turn green? Flying has an impact on the climate and everyone should use planes responsibly — that's what even airlines say now. "Flight shaming" is making a difference, as our reporter Andreas Spaeth found out....
Watch the Volkswagen ID. R Set Its Flying Lap Around the Nürburgring Earlier this week, the record-crushing Volkswagen ID. R demolished the EV lap record at the Nürburgring by over 40 seconds. Now, sit back and enjoy nine sweet, sweet minutes of footage showing just how the VW team absolutely killed it....
Flying-V will carry passengers in its wings The Dutch national carrier KLM will help to fund the development of a v-shaped, fuel-efficient airplane design known as the Flying-V, in a bid to improve the sustainability of air travel....
Finland: Euroskeptics vs. the flying squirrel With conservation blocking business, the flying squirrel has become a symbol of EU meddling in Finland. But environmentalists are working to win the creature Finnish hearts and habitat....
To Get Boeing 737 Max Flying, Global Consensus Will Be Hard One big sticking point is whether to require that pilots undergo additional training on a simulator. If the training is required, the planes would be grounded for longer than expected....
Could you give up flying? Meet the no-plane pioneers Growing numbers of travellers are abandoning air travel to help save the planet – even if it means spending 14 days on a trainIt has taken Roger Tyers four days to reach Moscow by train from Kiev. His destination is Beijing: a trip that will take 14 ...
Red Sox president: team flying Ortiz to Boston The Boston Red Sox management and the team's fans expressed shock and dismay Monday after the news that beloved former player David Ortiz was ambushed and shot in the Dominican Republic. (June 10) ...
New Flying Spur will be first Bentley with all-wheel steering Four-door model, to be revealed in June 11, promises "unparalled agility" The third-generation Bentley Flying Spur will be the first model from the marque to receive all-wheel steering, as the car maker seeks to make its four-door luxury saloon the...
Biggest airport ripoffs: 15 items you should never buy while flying Many of the products and services at the airport are being sold to you at a massive markup. Here are 15 to avoid if you don't want to get ripped off. ...
These Airplane Facts Will Help Cure Your Fear of Flying For some people, air travel is just another part of everyday life. But for others, it's a major source of stress and anxiety. The good news is that most fears boil down to a lack of understanding, and in those situations knowledge really is power. If...
A380 'Flying turtle' ready for takeoff The Airbus A380 might be on the out, but Japanese airline All Nippon Airways (ANA) has just taken delivery of the first of three snazzy new editions of the superjumbo aircraft....
De Blasio calls for ban on helicopters flying over Manhattan Mayor Bill de Blasio called for a prohibition against helicopters flying over Manhattan in the wake of Monday's deadly chopper crash in Midtown. "I think we need a full ban on any helicopters going over Manhattan itself," de Blasio said on WNYC'...
Uber unveils its vision of flying taxis Uber presented a grandiose vision of flying vehicles whisking people around cities at its annual flying car conference Tuesday in Washington, DC, a day after a fatal helicopter crash raised safety questions about plans for increased air traffic over ...
Uber will test its flying taxis in Melbourne Uber has chosen the third test city to join Dallas and Los Angeles for its flying taxi trials: Melbourne, Australia. The third location was supposed to be Dubai, but negotiations fell through and prompted the company to look for another site for tria...
CBI Alerts Airports To Stop Ex-Kolkata Top Cop From Flying Abroad Former Kolkata police chief Rajeev Kumar should not be allowed to leave the country, the Central Bureau of Investigation or CBI has said in a lookout notice to airports and ports in connection with......
Video shows strange object flying over Tucson TUCSON – A video posted on Twitter viewed thousands of times shows a string of red-ish lights moving in unison before blinking out. The video was recorded Tuesday night near Davis-Monthan Air Force Base. Officials with DMAFB said they were not ...
American Airlines CEO sees Boeing 737 MAX flying by mid-August The grounded Boeing Co 737 MAX is "highly likely" to be flying by mid-August, American Airlines Group Inc Chief Executive Doug Parker told shareholders on Wednesday....
'Wow, What Is That?' Navy Pilots Report Unexplained Flying Objects No one at the Pentagon is saying that the objects are extraterrestrial, but the Navy has issued new classified guidance for reporting unexplained aerial phenomena....
If You're Flying American Airlines, Expect Delays Until After Labor Day Back in March, Boeing 737 MAX aircraft were grounded after a tragic Ethiopian Airlines flight crashed, killing all 157 people on board. But, yes—there's still a chance your flights are going to be delayed until early September if you're flying Americ...
FAA chief says flying public will regain faith in Boeing jet FORT WORTH, Texas (AP) — The chief of the Federal Aviation Administration says "maybe" public confidence in Boeing's 737 Max jet is shaken after two deadly crashes, but he thinks that will eventually change. Representatives from 33 ...
We're Going to Mistake the Drones of the Future for Annoying Flying Insects Harvard's robotic flying bee has been in development for well over a decade now. And despite its incredibly simple design, over the past few years, its creators have improved Robobee's capabilities, adding abilities such as the ability to hover and e...
ShowBiz Minute: BET Awards, Flying Wallendas, US Box Office Mary J. Blige among big winners at BET Awards; Flying Wallendas safely cross Times Square; "Toy Story 4" takes top spot at U.S. box office. (June 24) ...
"Flying Soldier" Soars Over Paris For Bastille Day Celebrations ''Flying soldier'' and French inventor Frank Zapata enthraled the crowd gathered for Bastille Day celebrations at the Champs Elysees Avenue in Paris on Sunday, by flying his turbine engine-powered......
Ask the Captain: What does the first officer do? Is flying a plane physically tiring? Pilot John Cox breaks down the job of the monitoring pilot and talks about how physically stressful flying is (which is to say, not very). ...
FAA prohibits operators from flying over some Iran-controlled airspace The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration on Thursday issued an emergency order prohibiting U.S. operators from flying in an overwater area of Tehran-controlled airspace over the Strait of Hormuz and Gulf of Oman due to heightened tensions....
'Flying saucer' drone can fly twice as long as regular models The biggest problem with drones is their lack of endurance, but Swiss researchers have developed a new model that helps reduce that problem. Eschewing the regular four blade design, EPFL startup Flybotix's drone has just two propellers, letting ...
Climate of guilt: Flying no longer the high road for some NYKOPING, Sweden (AP) — A small but growing number of travelers in Europe and North America are shunning planes because of the high levels of greenhouse gas emissions they produce. The trend has spawned the term "flight shame" in Sweden, ...
Airbus shares a glimpse of its flying taxi cockpit Airbus has been working on its Vahana project for years. It's an attempt to create an autonomous passenger drone network that could operate like a flying version of the Waymo's self-driving cars. In January, the company's flying taxi t...
Flying a Drone While Drunk Could Land You in Prison in Japan You'd assume it would go without saying that operating any kind of machinery or vehicle after a few drinks is a dumb idea—even if it's one navigated by remote control. But as reported by the BBC, this week, Japan's parliament has passed a law making ...
GOP lawmaker questions flying of gay pride flag in Wisconsin MADISON, Wis. (AP) — A Republican state lawmaker says Democratic Gov. Tony Evers' order to fly a rainbow flag symbolizing gay pride over the Wisconsin state Capitol for the first time is divisive. State Rep. Scott Allen in a tweet Friday asked,...
Flying Dutch take remarkable rise to the final frontier against USA A women's football revolution has fired a Netherlands fairytale but an epic journey is not quite over yetVeritas Stadion in Turku, Finland, is an unlikely location for the start of a football revolution. Ten years ago, the Netherlands made their debu...
The 2020 Bentley Flying Spur Revealed With More Tech Than Ever Before Designed, engineered and handcrafted at the Home of Bentley in Crewe, England, the latest generation of the Flying Spur brings together the world of luxury and advanced technology. It is based on an......
Man accused of flying drone at California NFL games charged SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Federal authorities have charged a California man accused of using a drone to drop anti-media leaflets on crowds at two NFL games in the San Francisco Bay Area with violating national defense airspace regulations. The U.S. Depart...
Uber Names Melbourne as First Non-US City for Flying Car Programme Uber has selected Melbourne, Australia, as the first non-US city for its aerial ridesharing service that is expected to launch in 2023, as it unveiled new partners for the ambitious initiative....
Bentley designer Stefan Sielaff on the new Flying Spur Crewe's design director opens up about the legal restrictions on interior design and the link between each Bentley model As Bentley lifts the lid on its new Flying Spur luxury saloon, we chat to the car's designer, Stefan Sielaff, about the difficul...
Turkish F-35 pilots no longer flying at U.S. base: Pentagon Training by Turkish pilots on F-35 fighter jets has come to a faster-than-expected halt at a U.S. air base in Arizona, U.S. officials said on Monday, as the United States winds down Ankara's involvement in the program over Turkey's plans to buy a Ru...
Skai could be the first fuel cell-powered flying taxi Flying taxi designs are seemingly ubiquitous these days, but a startup is betting that its choice of powerplant could help it stand out. Alaka'i has unveiled Skai, a flying taxi that will run on hydrogen fuel cells (the first of its kind, the co...
Uber Air flying taxi service to be trialled in Melbourne Telstra, Macquarie, Westfield-operator Scentre Group, and Melbourne Airport to help the Silicon Valley darling launch a third Uber Air pilot city and the first outside of the United States....
Bentley Flying Spur: riding up the hill at Goodwood We speak to Bentley's vehicle dynamics boss as he drives us up the infamous hill on a wet Sunday morning Autocar took to a streaming-wet Goodwood hillclimb at 10.45 on Sunday morning, having watched a scary series of antique bikes and cars wobble an...
France off to a flying start after sweeping South Korea aside It felt somewhat fitting that it was two of Lyon's six-time Champions League winners stamping their mark on the Women's World Cup opener. With Eugenie Le Sommer's side-footed opener - her 11th goal in 11 internationals - followed by a Wendie Renard d...
Florida Congressman Matt Gaetz hit by flying drink cup PENSACOLA, Fla. (AP) — A Florida congressman who frequently appears on television supporting President Donald Trump was struck by a thrown drink as he left a town hall. U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz wasn't injured Saturday when he was struck by a plasti...
Authorities say a man crashed while flying a jetpack type of device. Authorities say a man crashed while flying a jetpack type of device. It happened this morning in the Salt River Recreation Area. First responders say he was alert and conscious when they found him. It is unclear what kind of device he was flying. The...
Bentley's new Flying Spur sedan can go 207 miles per hour The new Bentley Flying Spur four-door sedan has roomy leather seats, a panoramic sunroof, rich wood veneers and it can hit a top speed of over 200 miles an hour....
Flying this summer? 8 things to know if you haven't been on a plane for a year Summer travelers can expect busier airports, higher bag fees and seat selection fees, more basic economy tickets and potentially longer TSA lines. ...
Opinion: New Flying Spur shows Bentley's commitment to comfort Crewe's new luxury saloon boasts the model's most sophisticated suspension yet, but it will have to work extra hard Bentley demands its cars do a great deal. In fact, there's a pretty strong argument that the Bentayga SUV has the broadest remit of a...
FAA bars US planes from flying over Mideast areas amid tensions DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration says it has barred U.S.-registered aircraft from operating over parts of the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman over heightened tensions between Tehran and Washington. The FAA made...
New Bentley Flying Spur: luxury saloon's interior previewed Four-door sibling to the Continental GT will be shown for first time later this year, and teaser campaign has begun Bentley is building up to the launch of its all-new Flying Spur, previewing the car's interior ahead of its debut later this year. Wh...
Flying, insect-like robot flits closer to independent flight Enlarge / The RoboBee X\u00ADWing without its power and electronics. (credit: Noah T. Jafferis and E. Farrell Helbling, Harvard Microrobotics Laboratory) Just over six years ago, when researchers at Harvard announced that they had made tiny flying robot...
Koepka passes Bethpage Black test with flying colours "So dominant was Brooks Koepka in the opening round of the PGA Championship that he boldly referred to the intimidating Bethpage Black course as \"fun\" after grabbing the clubhouse lead on Thursday."...
Flying Wallendas to cross Times Square on a high wire NEW YORK (AP) — Imagine crossing Times Square on a high wire between skyscrapers, 25 stories above the pavement. If all goes well, that will be reality Sunday for two siblings from the famed Flying Wallendas (vah-LEN'-dahs) circus family. Their...
Former high-flying hedgie ordered to cough up $90M in bonus trial Time to cough it up, Paul. After a decade of sensational courtroom allegations about his rough treatment of underlings — ranging from death threats to taunting a worker with his blingy new watch — hedge-fund mogul Paul Touradji will have to pony up a...
UPDATE 1-Turkish F-35 pilots no longer flying at U.S. base -Pentagon Training by Turkish pilots on F-35 fighter jets has come to a faster-than-expected halt at a U.S. air base in Arizona, U.S. officials said on Monday, as the United States winds down Ankara's involvement in the program over Turkey's plans to buy a Ru...
Paris may offer flying taxis to 2024 Olympics guests You can be sure that transportation will be a nightmare for many people attending the 2024 Paris Olympics, but technology could make it slightly more bearable. Airbus, Aeroports de Paris and the Paris Transport Authority are exploring the feasibilit...
Bosch's reworked automotive sensors can help control flying taxis As companies from Boeing and Uber to Lilium work to develop flying taxis, Bosch wants to make the sensors they'll require more accessible. The company says conventional aerospace technology is too expensive and bulky to use in autonomous flying ...
U.S. regulator bars airlines from flying over some Iran-controlled airspace The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration on Thursday issued an emergency order prohibiting U.S. operators from flying in an overwater area of Tehran-controlled airspace over the Strait of Hormuz and Gulf of Oman due to heightened tensions....
Ben Stokes' flying, one-handed 'catch of the century' on replay – video Take a look at Ben Stokes' stunning one-hand catch from as many angels as we could find. South Africa's Andile Phehlukwayo looked to have hit Adil Rashid's ball for six before Stokes launched himself at the ball and caught it at full stretch with one...
Electric 'flying taxi' prototype unveiled by German start-up Lilium says electric jet-powered five-seater aircraft could be in service by 2025A new "flying taxi" has been unveiled by German start-up Lilium, which claims the vertical take-off craft could be the basis for an on-demand air service within six year...
Rise in Unruly Behavior on Planes Is Tied to Stress of Flying One of the stresses of flying, researchers have found, is inequality. Planes, one expert said, "are a social ladder made of aluminum and upholstery."...
Flying Southwest or American this summer? Check reservations for new Max 8 cancellations The airlines have taken the grounded planes out of their schedule into early September. Affected travelers will be rebooked or offered refunds. ...
Japanese operator: Sailors saw 'flying objects' before oil tanker attack The Japanese ship operator says sailors on board the Kokuka Courageous, one of the vessels attacked near the Strait of Hormuz, saw "flying objects" just before the attack, suggesting the tanker wasn't damaged by mines. That account ...
Exclusive first ride: 2020 Bentley Continental Flying Spur Bentley says its replacement for the Flying Spur will exceed expectations. We rode shotgun in Lapland for an early taste The morning briefing, delivered from the confines of our warm hotel, is brief. It's a decent day for lake and land-based testing...
Toyota Sets Provisional Pole at Le Mans After Crash Sent It Flying The 24 Hours of Le Mans is one of the most challenging races in the world—but every now and then we get a reminder that drivers are fallible people, too. And we sure as hell got that last night during the first qualifying session....
U.S. cautions airlines flying over Middle East after tensions with Iran The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration is advising commercial airlines flying over the Persian Gulf and Gulf of Oman to use caution in the wake of elevated tensions between the United States and Iran. ...
Flying Southwest or American this summer? Check your reservation for new Max 8 cancellations The airlines have taken the grounded planes out of their schedule into early September. Affected travelers will be rebooked or offered refunds. ...
Kate Middleton was spotted at Wimbledon using a $26 lip gloss that's now flying off the shelves Karwai Tang/Getty Images Kate Middleton was spotted at a Wimbledon match on Tuesday holding a tube of Clarins Instant Light Natural Lip Perfector. The lip gloss costs $26, and she appeared to be using a subtle pale-pink shade called Rose Shimmer. Cl...
Hydrogen-powered electric flying vehicle readies for liftoff LOS ANGELES (AP) — A transportation company is betting its hydrogen-powered electric flying vehicles will someday serve as taxis, cargo carriers and ambulances of the sky. But experts say they will have to clear several regulatory hurdles before bein...
Flying champagne corks burst bubble on Wimbledon matches Rain of a different sort has stopped play during several matches at SW19"Rain stops play" has been a familiar refrain in past Wimbledon championships but players this year have faced delays from a far less obvious hazard.On court 18, on Friday, an um...
'There I Was, Flying Across the Room': Tornado Leaves an Oklahoma Town Shaken At least two people were killed when a strong tornado touched down in El Reno, Okla., late Saturday, in the latest round of severe weather in the state....
UPDATE 2-American Airlines CEO sees Boeing 737 MAX flying by mid-August The grounded Boeing Co 737 MAX is "highly likely" to be flying by mid-August, American Airlines Group Inc Chief Executive Doug Parker told shareholders on Wednesday....
Pence calls US ban on flying LGBTQ flags from embassies 'the right decision' Vice President Mike Pence defended the Trump administration's decision to prohibit American embassies from flying LGBT flags on their flagpoles to commemorate LGBTQ Pride Month, saying in a new interview that only the American flag should fly in that...
Family flying guide: Avoid these mistakes when you travel with kids Planning to travel with kids? Before you make plans or fly with your family, you'll want to read this. ...
Toddler nearly impaled by flying umbrella at South Carolina beach A day at the beach for a North Carolina family nearly turned into tragedy when their toddler was almost impaled by a beach umbrella that was launched in the air by a gust of wind. ...
Inside Jorge Masvidal's epic flying knee knockout at UFC 239 Jorge Masvidal's knockout of Ben Askren on Saturday at UFC 239 will go down in the history books as the fastest in promotion history. Here's how it came to be....
Jorge Masvidal's Flying Knee KO Of Ben Askren Was The Result Of Planning, Not Luck On an initial viewing of that clip of Jorge Masvidal ending Ben Askren's undefeated professional MMA run with a flying knee just seconds into the match last Saturday, there isn't much that looks careful or considered. Masvidal holds his hands behind ...
Video: How high-flying Bird's 2018/19 FE title charge fell apart For the first time in the history of ABB FIA Formula E, Envision Virgin Racing driver Sam Bird heads to a season finale without a chance to win a title...
Buyers Await Aviation Regulator's Scrutiny Of Jet's Flying License: Report Recently, London-based AdiGroup partnered with Jet Airways Employee Consortium partnered to bid for 75 per cent stake of Jet under the insolvency resolution process...
NYPD officer injured by flying liquor bottle while on fireworks duty An NYPD officer trying to help control a crowd lighting off fireworks in Crown Heights early Friday was injured when a liquor bottle was thrown at his head, police said. Cops were responding to a group of people lighting off the pyrotechnics on Nostr...
Fortnite Fortbyte 67 Location Accessible by Flying Retaliator Glider through rings Accessible by Flying the Retaliator Glider through the rings under the southern most Sky Platform is the latest Fortbyte challenge players can complete today in Fortnite Battle Royale. Here's everything you need to know....
Crew On Japan Tanker Saw 'Flying Object' Before Attack: Company Head The crew of a Japanese-owned tanker hit in an apparent attack in the Gulf of Oman saw a "flying object" before a second blast on board, the operator's head said Friday....
New 2019 Bentley Flying Spur: official teaser video released News 29 May, 2019 New teaser video of the upcoming Bentley Flying Spur gives us our clearest look yet at Crewe's new luxury limousine...
Gareth Southgate flying out to watch England Under-21s Euros opener against France It is an indication of how important Gareth Southgate considers this month's European Under-21 Championship that he is due to fly out to watch England's rising stars at the tournament....
Some US embassies are still flying LGBTQ pride flags despite Trump administration advisory against it ANGELA WEISS/AFP/Getty Images US embassies and diplomatic missions are honoring LGBTQ pride month around the globe, despite the State Department's decision to reject requests to fly rainbow flags. Several embassies also honored pride month and other...
Man flying to Dominican Republic found with smoke grenades at Newark Airport A man flying from Newark Airport to the Dominican Republic was stopped by TSA agents from bringing several smoke grenades onto the flight Sunday, authorities said. TSA agents at an airport checkpoint x-rayed the man's bag and determined it needed fur...
Iran targeted and missed US drone flying over Gulf of Oman: officials Iran targeted and missed a US drone flying over the Gulf of Oman shortly after the Thursday attack on two tankers there, US officials said. The unmanned aircraft was responding to a distress signal from one of the crippled ships, the officials said t...
New Bentley Flying Spur: 207mph luxury sports saloon revealed The Flying Spur features Bentley's first-ever electronically powered, retracting Flying B, which even gets illuminated wings Rolls-Royce Ghost rival has an equal focus on driver engagement and passenger comfort The third-generation Bentley Flying ...
Ex-Jet Chairman Naresh Goyal, Wife Stopped At Mumbai From Flying Abroad Former Jet Airways chairman Naresh Goyal and his wife were stopped by Mumbai immigration from travelling abroad, news agency PTI reported on Saturday....
New 2019 Bentley Flying Spur: official teaser images released News 16 May, 2019 Official teasers of the upcoming Bentley Flying Spur have been revealed, previewing the new luxury limousine inside and out...
Uber Air announces Melbourne as trial city for flying taxi service Ridesharing company says test flights of Uber Air's helicopter-like 'flying car' will begin next yearMelbourne will be the first city outside the US to host trials of Uber Air, a service the company describes as "aerial ridesharing" that will shuttle...
Airspeeder Wants to Reinvent Racing With Single-Seat Flying Electric Cars Ah, the flying car. Every year a new concept or company appears with promises of taking us off the road and in to the fluffy clouds, and it's always just two years away. But one new company, Airspeeder, has a different goal in mind: flying car racing...
Meet The Smart Autonomous Flying Phone-Case Camera Drone Selfly is a phone case that doubles as a flying drone camera – featured Kickstarter Every week we scour Kickstarter, Indiegogo and more to find the best crowdfunding projects around, so you know which ones to consider backing – and which to avoid. Ou...
US confirms $130M high-flying drone brought down by Iranian missile The U.S. military says the drone shot down by Iran overnight was the Navy version of the RQ-4A Global Hawk High-Altitude Long Endurance Unmanned Aircraft, built by Northrop Grumman Corp. at a cost of $130 million a plane....
'I'll be flying till I die!' Why Wally Funk won't give up her lifelong space mission The pilot broke astronaut training records in the 1960s before being told a woman's place is not in orbit. Sixty years on, she is still pursuing her dreamWhen Wally Funk was barely a year old, she discovered aeroplanes. Her parents took her to an air...
Hydrogen-Powered Electric Flying Vehicle Unveiled by US-Based Company A transportation company is betting its sleek new hydrogen-powered electric flying vehicles will someday serve as taxis, cargo carriers and ambulances of the sky....
Uber picks Melbourne as test site for flying taxi service Uber Technologies said it will use Australia's second-largest city, Melbourne, as the first international test site for the group's planned flying taxi service....
Schwarzenegger struck by flying kick at South Africa sports event A man struck Arnold Schwarzenegger with a flying kick at a sports event in South Africa on Saturday, though the actor and former California governor later reassured fans that they needn't worry about him....
FAA issues order prohibiting US operators from flying over some Iran-controlled airspace The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration issued an emergency order on Thursday prohibiting U.S. operators from flying in an overwater area of Tehran-controlled airspace over the Persian Gulf and Gulf of Oman "due to heightened military activities and...
UPDATE 6-U.S. regulator bars airlines from flying over some Iran-controlled airspace The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration issued an emergency order on Thursday prohibiting U.S. operators from flying in Iran-controlled airspace over the Strait of Hormuz and Gulf of Oman due to heightened tensions....
Exclusive: U.S. airlines expect Boeing 737 MAX jets need up to 150 hours of work before flying again Once regulators approve Boeing Co's grounded 737 MAX jets for flight, each aircraft will likely require between 100 and 150 hours of preparation before flying, officials from the three U.S. airlines that operate the MAX told Reuters....
Flying feet, tattoos and chicken masks: Copa América 2019 – in pictures Five years after hosting the World Cup, Brazil again was home to a major competition; this time the Copa América with 12 teams competing over 26 matches. Chris Brunskill is one of a few European photographers that headed to South America to cover the...
Hydrogen-powered flying vehicle touted as Southern California traffic tonic Developers of a multi-rotor hover craft billed as the first flying vehicle to be powered by hydrogen fuel cells unveiled a full-scale model on Wednesday in Southern California, in a show-and-tell that raised some eyebrows but never left the ground....
FAA officials say the helicopter pilot who died after crashing on top of a New York City skyscraper should not have been flying East Clinton Volunteer Fire Department Pilot Timothy McCormack died after crashing a helicopter on top of a New York City skyscraper on Monday. He was the only person on board. The Federal Aviation Administration told NBC News and The Hill on Tuesda...
Video shows drivers in Georgia stopping to grab $175,000 in 'flying' cash on highway Video captured more than a dozen people getting out of their vehicles on Tuesday to grab money that was flying all over a Georgia interstate, police said....
A measles travel ban? Health officials have considered stopping infected travelers from flying The measles outbreak in several parts of the U.S. have prompted health officials to consider putting travelers on a rarely used Do Not Board list. ...
Flying Lotus: Flamagra review – cosmic voyager's cartoonish cinematic vision (Warp)Always known for Technicolor hip-hop odysseys, Flying Lotus has now gone fully cinematic. Following his directorial debut with the gross-out flick Kuso, Steven Ellison's sixth album includes a short story from David Lynch and cartoonish rap min...
Left-field cameos fuel Flying Lotus' latest odyssey, Flamagra Every Flying Lotus album unfolds as a hero's journey into the great unknown. On Los Angeles, the producer's 2008 breakthrough, he scoured his hometown's electronic underground through a sci-fi lens. Then came the space jazz of Cosmogramma, the electr...
Flying Wallendas cross Times Square on high wire in dramatic stunt Nik Wallenda, a seventh-generation acrobat, and his sister, Lijana Wallenda, coming back after a near-fatal accident in 2017, when she broke nearly every bone in her face, crossed Times Square in New York City on a high wire between skyscrapers, 25 s...
Nearly 9 out of 10 flying insects in hospitals carry potentially harmful bacteria, a new study finds CIA Museum A new study found that almost 9 out of 10 flying insects in hospitals carry potentially harmful bacteria, and over half of the bacterial strains found were 'superbugs,' or resistant to at least one class of antibiotics. British researcher...
Flying Wallendas to cross Times Square on high wire 25 stories above pavement Lijana Wallenda makes a brave return after a high wire accident broke nearly all the bones in her face two years ago. ...
Unidentified flying objects had Kansas City locals, weather service puzzled Unidentified flying objects were spotted in Kansas City, Missouri, Locals and even the local National Weather Service were puzzled by the objects. ...
'Unidentified object' flying over DMZ sparking media frenzy turns out to be flock of birds An "unidentified object" detected flying near South Korea's border with North Korea that sparked a media frenzy and prompted the south to launch fighter jets on Monday turned out to be a flock of birds....
No longer fiction: Flying car startups aim to begin test flights as early as next year The ride-sharing giant Uber and smaller startups like Alaka'i Technologies and ASKA edge closer toward a flying future. ...
New Bentley Flying Spur: 207mph luxury sports saloon on show at Goodwood Rolls-Royce Ghost rival has an equal focus on driver engagement and passenger comfort The third-generation Bentley Flying Spur will represent a "quantum leap in technology, performance and innovation" over its predecessor, according to the Crewe-bas...
Crash at Mountain of Hell bike race sends riders flying downhill The Mountain of Hell bike race took place Sunday on a glacier at Les Deux Alpes ski resort in France and it really lived up to its name as a big crash sent cyclists flying down the hill....
Fortnite Fortbyte 89 Location Accessible by flying Scarlet Strike Glider through rings Accessible by flying the Scarlet Strike Glider through the rings east of Snobby Shores is the latest Fortbyte 89 challenge players can complete today in Fortnite Battle Royale. Here's everything you need to know....
AOC shocked to agree with GOP's Freedom Caucus on surveillance tech: 'Check the sky for flying pigs' Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez said she checked to see if pigs could fly after she found a rare moment of common ground with House Republicans on Wednesday over the protection of Americans from surveillance....
French Inventor Totes Rifle While Flying Turbine-Powered Flyboard at Bastille Day Celebrations European leaders including French President Emmanuel Macron were treated to a demonstration of the Flyboard Air, a sort of gas turbine-powered jetpack/hoverboard/flying platform originally invented by jetski champ Franky Zapata, during Bastille Day f...
New software flaw found in Boeing 737 Max to further delay troubled plane's return to flying A new software flaw has been found in the troubled Boeing 737 Max that will further delay the plane's return to flying after two deadly crashes, according to the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)....
Jorge Masvidal Records Fastest Knockout In UFC History With Flying Knee To Ben Askren's Skull It took all of five seconds for Jorge Masvidal to knock out Ben "Funky" Askren and record the fastest KO in UFC history, beating out previous record-holder Duane Ludwig by a whole second....
F1 driver Pierre Gasly enjoys flying lap of Red Bull Ring in a stunt plane – video F1 driver Pierre Gasly flew over the Red Bull Ring, which will host this weekend's Austrian Grand Prix, in a stunt plane. The Red Bull Racing driver gave a running commentary on the track as was taken around, piloted by Air Race world champion, Marti...
'Flying objects' damaged Japanese tanker in Gulf of Oman: shipping company president Two "flying objects" damaged a Japanese tanker in a suspected attack on Thursday in the Gulf of Oman, but there was no damage to the cargo of methanol, the president of the shipping company said on Friday....
Video appears to show helicopter flying erratically before high-rise crash in New York City A dramatic video circulating on social media purportedly shows a helicopter flying erratically over the East River moments before crash landing on the roof a high-rise building near New York City's famed Time Square....
Owner says Kokuka Courageous tanker crew saw "flying objects" before attack, suggesting ship wasn't damaged by mines TOKYO (AP) — Owner says Kokuka Courageous tanker crew saw "flying objects" before attack, suggesting ship wasn't damaged by mines. The post Owner says Kokuka Courageous tanker crew saw "flying objects" before attack, sug...
South Korea's military says it has detected an "unidentified flying object" near the border with North Korea SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — South Korea's military says it has detected an "unidentified flying object" near the border with North Korea. The post South Korea's military says it has detected an "unidentified flying object&...
Baby bats are flying into peoples' houses because its that time of year. Don't freak out — do this instead Here's what you should do if you're hanging out in your living room watching TV and suddenly — oh my gosh! — a bat is circling above you. ...
North Carolina city files lawsuit against RV company for flying American flag out of city ordinance A battle between a North Carolina city and an RV company continues as the city fights to remove the large American flag that flies high outside of the business....
On autopilot: 'Pilots are losing their basic flying skills,' some fear after Boeing 737 Max crashes Two Boeing 737 Max crashes killed 346 people and grounded the jet due to software problems. It also raised bigger questions about flight automation. ...
'No explanation': Flying objects over Kansas City leave locals suspecting aliens Two flying objects in Kansas City, Missouri, left locals suspecting aliens and the National Weather Service with "no explanation." ...
Liverpool fans troll Man Utd by flying 'six times European champions' banner over training camp in Australia Manchester United have travelled about as far away as possible to escape Liverpool's Champions League triumph - but even Australia isn't far away enough, it seems....
Flying the Millennium Falcon at Disney's Star Wars land is fun but misses the 'wow' factor The ride is a lot of fun, but it doesn't have that "wow" factor many fans will be expecting, especially those who don't get to pilot. ...
Amazon just released their Prime Day Preview—here are the best deals to look out for Prime Day is coming and Amazon just gave us a sneak peak of the best deals to look out for on Amazon devices, 4k TVs, and so much more. ...
Too violent? School wants esports players to get preapproval for League of Legends Kentucky High School Athletic Association Board says esports participants will need written approval to compete in the League of Legends video game. ...
At $7, This Is One of the Cheapest USB-C PD Chargers We've Seen This USB-C PD charger from UGREEN isn't the smallest on the market, and it's sure not the most powerful, but at $7 today (after clipping the 20% coupon and adding promo code KINJA30OFF at checkout), it's one of the cheapest we've ever seen.Read more....
How Donald Glover and More Lion King Stars Are Gearing Up to Meet Meghan Markle Seth Rogen and Billy Eichner have some thoughts on the protocol surrounding the Royal Family. E! News' Zuri Hall stopped to chat with The Lion King stars about all things......
Miami Dolphins' Kendrick Norton cited for crash that led to arm amputation Miami Dolphins defensive lineman Kendrick Norton was cited for the crash last week that caused emergency personnel to amputate his left arm at the scene, officials said Thursday....
Murder Victim's Sons Attack Their Mother's Killer in Court In the criminal justice system, the people are represented by three separate yet equally important groups: the police, who investigate crime; the district attorneys, who prosecute the offenders and the victims' family, who often wish they could offer...
EMERGING MARKETS-Latam currencies climb to 15-month high on Fed optimism Latin American currencies scaled a 15-month high on Friday as hopes of an interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve later this month boosted investor confidence, while stock indices in the region were subdued. MSCI's index of Latin American cu...
#couscousforcomment: the hashtag shaming Instagrammers who demand free food Chefs around the world are fed up with so-called social media influencers offering 'exposure' – and they're biting backOne day in April Duncan Welgemoed, chef and part owner of Africola, was checking his emails when he saw a request from a contestant...
Hezbollah says U.S. seeking to talk Hezbollah's leader said on Friday that Washington was seeking to open channels to the Iran-backed movement despite ramping up sanctions against its officials....
Read this: Let's take a closer look at all the stores in Stranger Things' Starcourt Mall Sure, the special effects in Stranger Things 3 were impressive, with exploding rats and a spider-y Mind Flayer and powerful Russian lasers trying to re-open the portal into the Upside Down. But…did you notice the endless stacks of bright '80s clothes...
Patriots LB Roberts seeks inquiry for police harassment New England Patriots linebacker Elandon Roberts, who says he was harassed by police in the driveway of his Fort Bend County home in Texas during a traffic stop in March, wants a further investigation into the incident....
Mr. Olympia winner Shawn 'Flexatron' Rhoden accused of rape by fellow bodybuilder Bodybuilding star and Mr. Olympia winner Shawn Rhoden — aka "Flexatron" — has been charged with first-degree rape in Utah, according to cops. The 44-year-old is accused of sexually assaulting a female bodybuilder inside of a C...
Jon Stewart: House passes 9/11 victims compensation bill, but 'none of us feel like the job is done' The House of Representatives' reauthorization of the 9/11 Victims Compensation Fund is an achievement but not the end of activists' work, according to Jon Stewart....
AOC's Green New Deal would boost gas tax $10-$13, 'destroy economy' The socialistic Green New Deal, pushed by New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and winning broad support from Democratic presidential candidates could lead to a $10 increase on a single gallon of gas, according to a new study of the so-called "carb...
From Hollywood fashion to the moon: Summer 2019's best American museum exhibits Museums are focusing on the anniversaries of the moon landing and D-Day as well as baseball cards, fashion, Mickey Mouse, mummies and movies. ...
How hurricane names are 'retired' from use for future storms To retire a storm name – and have it removed from the list – the hurricane must be "so deadly or costly that the future use of its name on a different storm would be inappropriate for obvious reasons of sensitivity."...
James Dyson buys £43m penthouse in Singapore Purchase comes months after British inventor revealed plans to move firm to city-stateBillionaire inventor James Dyson has bought a £43m luxury penthouse, thought to be the most expensive flat in Singapore, months after the prominent Brexit supporter...
Jeffrey Epstein's cell is 3 doors down from El Chapo Accused pedophile Jeffrey Epstein is being kept this close to El Chapo at a Manhattan jail, sources told The Post. Epstein — who was arrested on sex-crime charges last week — landed in cell No. 4, three doors down from Mexican drug kingpin Joaquin "E...
'Hawkeye' Jeremy Renner headlines Summer of Jeep ad campaign The actor best known as Hawkeye in 'The Avengers' films is the new face and voice of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles' Summer of Jeep ad campaign. ...
New drug relieves acute migraine in clinical trial The results of a large phase III trial show that the novel drug rimegepant can relieve pain and other symptoms of acute migraine with minimal side effects....
How does alcohol affect rheumatoid arthritis? Drinking a moderate amount of alcohol is generally safe for people with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and it may even offer some benefits. However, alcohol can interfere with some RA medications, and heavy drinking can lead to health problems. We take a...
Conservatives want CSIS to investigate John McCallum for election interference McCallum recently told the South China Morning Post that he had warned China that more harmful actions against Canada would help the Conservative party get elected....
Russia's Wealth of Archaeological Wonders The treasures and ancient mysteries of Russia provide evidence of vital stages in not only human evolution, but the very origins of life on planet earth. ...
Florida cracks down on dangerous plastic surgery centers South Florida's obsession with beauty has made it a top destination for cheap plastic surgery – but it has also drawn a growing number of centers that exploit those seeking smaller waistlines or more noticeable assets. Now, the state is cracking down...
Selby sends good luck message to Twitter follower Halep ahead of Wimbledon final "Wimbledon finalist Simona Halep has received a good luck message from three-time world snooker champion Mark Selby, one of only two people the Romanian follows on Twitter."...
Fashion icon: Russell Westbrook's wildest styles Russell Westbrook is known for blazing his own, very unique sartorial trail. Take a look back at some of his wildest styles over the years. ...
Amazon Just Unveiled Its Most Detailed Prime Day Preview Yet Prime Day kicks off at 3AM ET on Monday (and yes, we'll be up for the start of it), but if you want to start planning out your purchases, Amazon just unveiled a huge list of the upcoming deals....
Met exhibit sends you to the moon 50 years after lunar landing For as long as we've looked up, we've wondered about the moon. It wasn't until 1610 that Galileo, armed with a homemade telescope, sketched a landscape like our own, riddled with valleys, craters and mountains. But only with the advent of photography...
An 'EpiPen' for spinal-cord injuries could prevent paralysis When your body suffers trauma, its fierce army of immune cells go to work — clearing out dead and damaged tissue as well as beefing up the injured area's defense against infection. But for the some 12,000 new cases of spinal-cord injury i...
California governor signs bill for $21 billion wildfire fund California Governor Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a bill approved by lawmakers a day earlier that creates a $21 billion fund to help bankrupt PG&E Corp and the state's other investor-owned utilities cover liabilities arising from future wildfires cau...
U.S. lawmakers will delay Mueller testimony by a week Two U.S. House committees will delay former Special Counsel Robert Mueller's planned July 17 testimony for one week to allow lawmakers to question him for a longer period of time, the committees said on Friday....
House approves measure to block Trump from launching military strike against Iran The House proposal would bar the Trump administration from using any federal funds for military force "in or against" the Islamic Republic. ...
Deal struck for Mueller to appear, give extended testimony before Congress on July 24 Former Special Counsel Robert Mueller will give extended testimony as part of a deal for him to appear before congressional lawmakers later this month, Democratic Party officials said Friday. ...
Trump DOJ scores rare win on sanctuary city crackdown in appeals court President Trump notched a win on Friday in a federal appeals court, which upheld a Department of Justice method for cracking down on sanctuary cities. ...
Chandrayaan-2 Moon Mission a Signal of India's Growing Space Ambitions Chandrayaan-2, whose launch is set to coincide with the 50th anniversary of Apollo 11, will attempt to soft-land onto the moon's uncharted south pole region in the first week of September....
Journalist released after 15 months in ICE detention A Memphis journalist who was arrested while covering an immigration protest and detained by US immigration officials for more than 15 months has been released, his attorneys said....
Mueller hearing may be delayed The House Judiciary Committee is discussing delaying former special counsel Robert Mueller's public testimony one week until July 24 to allow more time for Mueller to testify....
Amazon's music service is actually growing more quickly than Spotify Spotify and Apple Music are the two music streaming services that tend to get the lion's share of attention — partly because of the obvious fact that they also have the lion's share of paying subscribers and arguably a better produc...
Gartner, IDC agree that PC sales are up—but they don't agree what a PC is Enlarge / Does this Chromebook count as a traditional PC? Gartner says no, IDC says yes. (credit: Valentina Palladino) We've been hearing for quite some time that the traditional PC is dying, but it's not quite dead yet. Business analyst firms Gart...
FTC 'Failed Miserably' in Punishing Facebook With $5 Billion Fine, Democrats Say The Federal Trade Commission, which has been investigating Facebook in the wake of its massive Cambridge Analytica scandal, has voted to approve levying a massive $5 billion fine against the social media giant, according to reporting in both the Wall...
AMD Ryzen 3000 systems need a BIOS fix for Linux, 'Destiny 2' issues Last week AMD officially released its new Ryzen 3000 Series CPUs and Radeon RX 5700 graphics cards, but there's a small problem with the CPUs. As some Linux users quickly noticed, there's an issue with newer distributions based on 5.0 or hi...
'They're well-cared for': Pence criticizes Democrats on visit to crowded migrant facility The vice-president and eight Republican lawmakers toured two detention facilities in Texas FridayA visit by the US vice-president, Mike Pence, to migrant detention stations along the country's southern border highlighted the sharp disconnect between ...
Rosalía's 'Spanishisms' upset Catalonia's language purists Catalan pop star uses Spanish words in Milionària, her first single in the local languageThe Catalan pop star Rosalía has upset language purists with her first single recorded in Catalan, by using "Spanishisms" that critics say dilute the language.In...
USWNT Press Officer On Christen Press's Barstool Sports Partnership: "Something Seems Amiss!" During Wednesday's victory parade for the USWNT, Christen Press briefly took over the Barstool Sports Instagram account, where she posted videos of her and her teammates celebrating. Later that day, Barstool Sports published a post under the headline...
Samsung may develop foldable augmented reality glasses Samsung is exploring the possibility of developing augmented reality glasses, based on one of its latest patent applications first spotted by Patently Apple. The documentation the tech giant submitted to the US Patent & Trademark Office shows fol...
What it will take to keep stocks at all-time highs The stock market finished the week at all-time highs, but will it last? For the answer, Wall Street will be listening next week to America's CEOs. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 0.9 percent, to close at an all-time high of 27,332.03 on Frid...
Family of Maria Escobedo speaks out after murderer gets life in prison TUCSON – Maria Escobedo was known as kind, nice and loving. She was a family woman, a mother and a grandma. The brother of Escobedo, Jose Tellez was emotional as he talked to News 4 Tucson about the life sentence of Mario Jesus Dorame. "I...
Romesh Ranganathan: even the loveliest people get road rage – my mum included The van driver suggested we both pull over and sort this out physicallyI find it baffling how much of a war zone the road is. In life, we mostly manage to walk around interacting with each other fairly politely. But as soon as we get into our cars, w...
What links Tulip, Carnation, Bulldozer and Jeans? The Weekend quiz From Coronation Street to Shakespeare, test your knowledge with the Weekend quiz1 The British Guiana 1c Magenta is the world's most valuable what?2 Which literary dame appeared in Coronation Street in 1961?3 Which shy mammals might gather in a cete?4...
Summer desserts to cook on the barbecue – recipes | Four favourite recipes Keep that barbecue vibe going even longer by cooking pudding on it, too: baked stone fruits with mascarpone, scotch pancakes, strawberries and cream, boozy pineapple and (of course) s'moresPrep 5 minCook 15 minMakes 6 Continue reading......
Robert Mueller testimony pushed to July 24, giving more time for questioning Mueller had been scheduled to testify July 17 about the findings of his Russia investigation. But lawmakers in both parties complained that the short length of the hearings would not allow enough time for all members to ask questions....
3 Goa Congress Lawmakers Who Switched To BJP Will Be Made Ministers Today Three of the 10 Congress lawmakers in Goa who switched to the BJP earlier this week will find a place in the cabinet as Chief Minister Pramod Sawant readies to induct four new ministers today.......
Mike Mussina: Blank cap for Hall of Fame was my only choice In the immediate aftermath of getting the call to the Hall of Fame, Mike Mussina had not yet figured out which cap — Orioles or Yankees — he would wear on his plaque. The next day, with a night to sleep on it, he still had no decision. Looking back o...
Lawmakers ask Tish James to investigate Cy Vance over Epstein case Five Manhattan lawmakers wrote to New York Attorney General Letitia James on Friday, urging her to probe Manhattan DA Cy Vance's failed support eight years ago of more lenient sex offender monitoring for multi-millionaire pedophile Jeffrey Epst...
Amir Khan sets sights on Pacquiao after Dib throws in towel in Saudi Arabia 'We want the Manny Pacquiao fight, let's hope he comes to Saudi Arabia,' says Amir Khan The post Amir Khan sets sights on Pacquiao after Dib throws in towel in Saudi Arabia appeared first on Boxing News....
| SA wheelchair tennis ace knocked out at Wimbledon SA wheelchair tennis ace Kgothatso Montjane's run at Wimbledon came to an end with a straight-set defeat by defending champion Diede de Groot in London...
Actor, YouTuber Ray Diaz arrested in sexual assault of teenager, police say Actor and YouTuber Ray Diaz was arrested Friday for sexual assault after videos posted on social media allegedly showed him berating, threatening and hitting a teenager purported to be his girlfirend, the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) confirme...
Somali forces end extremist siege of Kismayo hotel; 18 dead Somali forces Saturday morning ended an all-night siege on a hotel in the southern port city of Kismayo as death toll has risen to 18 people, including a prominent Canadian-Somali journalist...
The Black Hole Engulfing the World's Bond Markets There's a multitrillion-dollar black hole growing at the heart of the world's financial markets. Negative-yielding debt -- bonds worth less, not more, if held to maturity -- is spreading to more corne......
4 Indian Crew Of Seized Iran Oil Tanker Freed On Bail Without Charge Four Indian nationals arrested in connection with an ongoing investigation into an Iranian oil supertanker seized off the Spanish coast last week have been freed on bail without charge, the Royal......
Death toll in hotel attack in Somalia's Kismayo jumps to 26: regional president Islamist gunmen killed 26 people, including Kenyans, Americans, a Briton and Tanzanians, when they stormed a hotel in Somalia's southern port city of Kismayo, a regional state president said on Saturday, the deadliest day in the city since insurgents...
Vatican mystery over missing girl deepens; 2 ossuaries found The mystery over the 1983 disappearance of the 15-year-old daughter of a Vatican employee has taken yet another twist following excavations this week at a Vatican City cemetery...
| Clashes kill more than 100 fighters in northwest Syria More than 100 fighters were killed in clashes between regime and jihadist-led forces in northwest Syria, a war monitor said, as violence raged on the edge of an opposition bastion despite a September truce deal....
How you can see which companies found you on Facebook Facebook's new ad-transparency features can give valuable context into how companies find you, but it's not likely to stop a tracking industry. ...
Amazon Prime Day 2019: Here's the best deals for video gamers Tech columnist Marc Saltzman breaks down some of the best Amazon Prime Day deals for video gamers including headphones, Oculus VR and a Dell laptop. ...
Corbyn decries BBC's 'inaccuracies' over Labour antisemitism Labour leader says Panorama adopted 'predetermined' critical positionJeremy Corbyn has said there were "many, many, inaccuracies" in the BBC Panorama documentary about antisemitism in the party, saying that the programme adopted a "predetermined posi...
Motor racing: Rosberg happy to see Hamilton break all records Nico Rosberg can see Lewis Hamilton smashing Michael Schumacher's records to become Formula One's most successful driver, and the Briton's former Mercedes team mate says he feels pretty good about it....
Taliban storm hotel building in west Afghanistan Taliban insurgents stormed a commercial building housing a hotel in western Afghanistan, killing three security officials and injuring 10, officials said on Saturday, the latest in a surge of attacks despite reported progress in peace talks....
After scuffles, Hong Kong police warn protesters to refrain from violence, leave scene Hong Kong police appealed to protesters on Saturday to refrain from violence and leave the area after scuffles in the town of Sheung Shui, where thousands of demonstrators had converged earlier in the day to protest against mainland Chinese traders....
Tina 'Knowles' Black Excellence and Urges Us To Never Dim Our Light As a people, we've been known to make it out on top in some of the most unfortunate circumstances. With all that we have been through, we still manage to find a way to celebrate the beauty that comes with being black. Even when you trod us down into ...
The Netflix cash machine needs the kind of hits that money can't buy It is worth $166bn and has 150m users. But as it loses the rights to other networks' best shows, it must create its own classicsNetflix is a multibillion-dollar programming machine in dire need of homemade hits – and it can no longer rely on Friends ...
|3reformsthatwillmaximizeaviationbenefitsinSA-report In 2017, 20.9 million passenger journeys were made to, from and within South Africa, with aviation and tourism representing US$9.4bn in gross value added....
Hamilton denied Brit GP pole by Bottas, takes on negativity Valtteri Bottas was six milliseconds faster than Mercedes teammate Lewis Hamilton on Saturday to take pole position for the British Grand Prix ...
Barry becomes hurricane as it bears down on Louisiana: NHC Storm Barry was upgraded to hurricane status on Saturday as it moved onto Louisiana with maximum sustained winds of 75 mph (120 km/h), and its center is expected to cross the coast during the next few hours, the National Hurricane Center said....
R. Kelly Ex-Staffers Hand Over 20 Sex Tapes to Feds It appears that R. Kelly's enablers are having a call of conscious as ex-employees reportedly turned over more that 20 sex tapes to federal authorities....
'Tough Stuff': Mike Pence sees Donald Trump's US migrant camps Vice President Mike Pence has witnessed firsthand the conditions that detained migrants face on the US-Mexico border. Donald Trump has announced a nationwide wave of arrests of people facing deportation....
Sainz's British GP qualifying "snowballed into a disaster" McLaren Formula 1 driver Carlos Sainz says his qualifying effort for the British Grand Prix "snowballed into a disaster" as he was consigned to 13th on the grid...
Chess Grandmaster Caught Using His Phone While On The Toilet During A Tournament Latvian-Czech chess grandmaster Igors Rausis is reportedly under investigation after he was caught checking his phone while on the toilet in the middle of a tournament he was participating in. Rausis signed a declaration stating that the phone that i...
Bottas denies Hamilton his home British GP pole Valtteri Bottas beat crowd favourite and Formula One leader Lewis Hamilton by the blink of an eye on Saturday to deny his Mercedes team mate a fifth successive British Grand Prix pole position....
Computer password inventor Fernando Corbato dies at 93 Computer security just lost one of its founders. Fernando "Corby" Corbato, credited with inventing the computer password, has died at the age of 93. The MIT researcher devised the concept of password-protected user accounts when establishing his Co...
Mike Pence visits migrant detention facilities on southern US border – video The vice-president, Mike Pence, got a first-hand view of migrant detention facilities after touring two centres in Texas as he spoke out against grandstanding on Capitol Hill after legislators delivered emotional testimony about appalling conditions....
Massive Mudslide Block Chandigarh-Shimla Highway Massive mudslides hit the Chandigarh-Shimla national highway between Parwanoo and Solan towns in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday owing to heavy overnight rains, that led to traffic snarls and posed a......
Serena Williams loses her 3rd consecutive Grand Slam final Serena Williams' loss to Simona Halep at the All England Club was her third consecutive defeat in a Grand Slam final ...
Chinese Firms Pledge To Invest $5 Billion In Pak After Meeting Imran Khan Leading Chinese firms have told Prime Minister Imran Khan that they will invest USD 5 billion in cash-strapped Pakistan in various sectors over a period of three to five years....
After Playing GoldenEye On The N64, Valve Changed Half-Life Today, developers have a huge variety of ways to create and manage enemy AI. However, back in the 90s it was much more difficult to create sophisticated enemy AI. It was even harder to do so on the N64 due to its limited power and resources. But Rare...
Call to shelve Renault upgrades vindicated - Riccardo Daniel Ricciardo has praised Renault for putting aside the 'frustrations' of having to abandon some of its new upgrades as it returned to form at the British Grand Prix....
How 'Grand Theft Auto' kingpin Robert Alexander gambled his fortune away Robert Alexander blew thousands in nightclubs, bet even more at craps and bragged about winning $7.8 million at the Golden Nugget. But last month, Alexander was hoping a judge would not revoke his $100,000 bond....
Ex-'SNL' star and leukemia survivor Vanessa Bayer wrote a book to comfort sick kids When someone is very sick, it can be difficult to know what to say. Sometimes people get so uncomfortable, they don't say anything at all. It's even more confusing when the person who's sick is a child. It's something actress Vanessa Bayer experience...
Kiran More Appointed Interim USA Cricket Coach The USA Cricket has also appointed former India spinner Sunil Joshi as spin bowling advisor, and Pravin Amre and Kieran Powell as advisors for the batting department....
Pence Defends Conditions at Migrant Detention Centers in Texas Vice President Mike Pence toured two Border Patrol facilities on Friday, later saying they were "providing care that every American would be proud of."...
| Sudanese protesters demand justice for army crackdown victims Thousands of Sudanese protesters have poured onto the streets of Khartoum and other cities to mark the 40th day since the deadly dispersal of a sit-in outside the army headquarters that killed more than 100 people....
| WATCH: Car bomb and all-night hotel siege kill 26 in Somalia's Kismayo Kenyans, Americans, a Briton and Tanzanians were among 26 people killed when Islamist gunmen stormed a hotel in the Somali port city of Kismayo, officials say....
Best 4K TVs for gaming: 5 TVs to get the most out of your PS4 and Xbox One Best TVs for Gaming Buying Guide: Welcome to TechRadar's round-up of the best 4K TVs for PS4 and Xbox you can buy for any budget in 2019.If you've yet to game on a 4K TV using Xbox One X or PS4 Pro, you're missing out. While these are ...
PC Chacko Writes To Sheila Dikshit Over Appointment Of Block Observes AICC in-charge for Delhi PC Chacko and three working presidents of the party Saturday wrote letters to Delhi Congress president Sheila Dikshit, objecting to the announcement of district and......
Buemi wins New York E-Prix thriller as title race hots up Sebastien Buemi broke a two-year win drought to take the first race of the New York City double-header Saturday and keep alive his Formula E world title hopes as championship leader Jean-Eric Vergne finished out of the points....
Newborn who stopped breathing saved by deputy during traffic stop A South Carolina deputy got more than he bargained for during a traffic stop in Summerville, when he wound up saving the life of an infant who had stopped breathing....
Tropical Storm Barry makes landfall in Louisiana After making landfall as a Category 1 hurricane, the powerful storm was downgraded to tropical storm. But authorities have warned that the worst is yet to come as Louisiana braces for heavy rains and dangerous flooding....
How to Automatically Close Safari Tabs on Your iPhone I probably use my phone to search for at least a dozen things on the web every day, often more. For each search or visit to a favorite website, I instinctively open a new tab. Eventually, that means I have a pretty significant number of tabs open on ...
Arnold's rejected Predator cameo was supposed to be a Force Awakens, Luke Skywalker kind of thing Although it's since faded from view—like some sort of technologically advanced killing machine that pretty much nobody actually wanted to look at, as it happened to turn out—there was once a time when expectations were modestly high for Shane Black's...
Whooooo wants to see Ed Sheeran get stung in the eye by a bee? "Antisocial," the new video from Ed Sheeran and Travis Scott, has something for everybody—provided "everybody" is a subset of the human population that really wants to watch Scott's head explode, Total Recall-style, or Sheeran bully a robot. Released...
Woman in critical condition after Queens head-on crash A woman was critically hurt Saturday morning when she was riding in a car that was struck head-on in Queens, according to authorities. The vehicles collided around 3:35 a.m. on Vernon Boulevard near 36th Avenue in Astoria, police said. The 38-year-ol...
Exclusive: Barneys New York explores options that include bankruptcy - sources U.S. luxury department store operator Barneys New York Inc is exploring options that include a bankruptcy filing, as it struggles with high rents and changing consumer tastes, people familiar with the matter said on Saturday....
AB InBev pulls Budweiser listing, canceling year's largest IPO Anheuser-Busch InBev said on Friday it will not proceed with the planned listing in Hong Kong of its Asia Pacific unit, Budweiser Brewing Company APAC Ltd, in what would have been the world's biggest initial public offering (IPO) of 2019....
Wall St. notches all-time highs on lingering rate-cut optimism All three major indexes posted record closing highs on Friday as firm expectations for an interest-rate cut from the Federal Reserve continued to propel shares while investors awaited next week's kickoff of the corporate earnings season....
Partial blackout hits Manhattan; utility begins restoring power A wide swath of New York's Manhattan borough was plunged into darkness Saturday following a transformer explosion, knocking out power to subways, stores and Broadway theaters, but the city's main utility began restoring power several hours later....
Pelosi sets spending demands for two-year budget deal U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Saturday that a two-year budget agreement with the Trump administration must include equal increases in defense and nondefense spending, plus additional money for a program intended to improve healthcare for mi...
To Moon And Back: 50 Years On, A Giant Leap Into Unknown The first four days of Apollo 11's journey to the Moon had gone according to plan, but just twenty minutes before landing, the atmosphere grew tense as the crew encountered a series of problems....
Ex-French Leader Francois Hollande Finds Second Career -- On Stage Former French president Francois Hollande made the first tentative step into what may or may not be a second career this weekend when he trod the boards at one of the world's biggest theatre......
Stevenson KOs Guevara in thrilling homecoming Rising featherweight star Shakur Stevenson retained his regional belt after a dominant showing against Alberto Guevara in his hometown of Newark, New Jersey....
Final death toll in boat migrant accident off Tunisia rises to 82 The number of bodies recovered by Tunisia after a ship packed with migrants sank off its coast last week has risen to 82, in one of the worst disasters in recent years, the Tunisian Red Crescent said on Saturday....
Noah Syndergaard gave Mets and scouts what they want to see MIAMI — This was the kind of start Noah Syndergaard needed. So did the Mets. It didn't hurt that a good number of scouts were in the stands Saturday night at Marlins Park to see the big right-hander, including Yankees scout Cory Melvin, The Post has ...
Ed Henry calls in to give update on liver transplant recovery: 'We've succeeded in victory' Fox News Chief National Correspondent Ed Henry called into "Fox & Friends" on Saturday to give viewers an update on his and his sister's progress in recovering from a liver transplant the two underwent....
UK Police Identify Suspect Behind Leaked Envoy Memos: Report The suspect behind the leak of confidential memos from Britain's Washington ambassador, which sparked a major diplomatic rift with the United States, has been identified, the Sunday Times newspaper......
|SundayRead:AlookatSA'sautomanufacturingindustry About a third of value addition within SA's domestic manufacturing sector is derived either directly or indirectly from vehicle assembly and automotive component manufacturing activity....
Lawyer: Ezekiel Elliott is target of extortion after Vegas security guard presses charges Kyle Johnson, the security guard Ezekiel Elliott shoved in May, filed charges in Las Vegas. Elliott's lawyers say he is "a target of extortion." ...
Lea Michele and Her Glee Co-Stars Remember Cory Monteith 6 Years After His Death It's been six years since Cory Monteith's death. On Saturday, Lea Michele took to Twitter to pay tribute to her late Glee co-star. "The light always remains,"......
After a Police Shooting, Ethiopian Israelis Seek a 'Black Lives Matter' Reckoning The fatal shooting of a black teenager by the Israeli police has set off angry protests in a community that has faced a long history of discrimination....
Struggling in White House bid, Democrat Gillibrand seeks bump in Trump country U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand rolled through Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan last week on a bus emblazoned with "He broke it, we'll fix it," as part of a campaign tour highlighting what she called President Donald Trump's "broken promises" to the r...
How to survive the fake news about cancer The internet is awash with ads for costly but bogus treatments – and claims that scientists are suppressing a cure for the diseaseFor Eileen O'Sullivan, being diagnosed with breast cancer in 2013 was the catalyst for a deluge of distinctly unscientif...
Crew of Detained Iranian Oil Tanker Is Released in Gibraltar Police in the British overseas territory of Gibraltar released the four-member crew of a detained Iranian oil tanker, authorities said, potentially easing tensions between the U.K. and Iran after a week of steady escalation....
Digital journey should be naturally pushed by CEO, CFO and CIO Digital transformation has to flow in every part of the organization and should be naturally pushed by the CEO, CFO and CIO, an industry expert said.Vijay Jaswal, Chief Technology Officer at Software AG for the Middle East and Turkey, told TechRadar ...
Best fitness trackers in UAE for 2019: the top activity bands on the planet Update: We've just put a new entry into our best fitness tracker list. It's the Huawei Band 3 Pro, and you can find out where it has placed by scrolling down in our full ranking.Fitness trackers are a great way to monitor your activity and ...
Manufacturers Move Supply Chains Out of China U.S. manufacturers are shifting production to countries outside of China as trade tensions between the world's two biggest economies stretch into a second year....
Everything to Know About July's Full Buck Moon — the First Full Moon of Summer Calling all stargazers! The so-called Full Buck Moon is on the horizon — so get ready to enjoy the show. As astronomy buffs might already know, this month's full moon is due on July 16, and brings with it a partial lunar eclipse that̵...
Vatican hunt for Emanuela Orlandi uncovers two sets of bones Papal authorities seal off area inside Pontifical Teutonic College in search for girl missing since 1983One of Rome's most enduring mysteries – the 1983 disappearance of 15-year-old Emanuela Orlandi, a Vatican employee's daughter – took a new twist o...
US consumer debt surges to record highs America has a shocking new "savings and loan" crisis. Consumer debt is surging to record highs, fueled by rising mortgage debt, student loans and a binge on credit card use. And more Americans are flat-out broke, with no emergency savings. "Consumer ...
Ricky Simón Postponed His Honeymoon To Get Knocked Out In 46 Seconds It had always been a dream for Ricky Simón to fight UFC Hall of Famer Urijah Faber, so when the opportunity arose for that dream to become a reality, the 26-year-old bantamweight made sure he'd be the one to welcome "The California Kid" back into the...
Dozens clash with police at gas price protest in Bangladesh capital Dozens of people protesting against the Bangladeshi government's sudden decision to hike gas prices by a third clashed on Sunday with police outside the energy ministry in Dhaka, protest leaders and police said....
Venezuela Gives Colombian Rebels Free Rein The guerrillas of the National Liberation Army, or ELN, have been battling Colombian governments for half a century, but they have a new advantage: Sanctuary in and open support from Venezuela is helping the group thrive as it never has before....
Live Blogging the Democratic Presidential Candidates Competing to Be the Leftiest, at Netroots Because we are idiot masochists, we are spending this beautiful summer Saturday afternoon inside the Philadelphia Convention Center at the Netroots Nation Presidential Candidate Forum, where several candidates are scheduled to appear and tell us why ...
Plans resume to transform Pima County facility into new migrant shelter TUCSON — The plan to renovate parts of the former Pima County Juvenile Detention Center into a migrant shelter will move forward Saturday night. This comes after some local leaders questioned the optics of using what was once a detention center...
Lewis Hamilton claims record-breaking sixth Silverstone win Lewis Hamilton won the British Formula 1 Grand Prix for a record-breaking sixth time as Mercedes secured a one-two on the Silverstone podium. The race has been hailed as the best of the F1 season so far....
Overwatch Hero 31 release date teased: Next playable character coming after Summer Games? Blizzard seems to be teasing the arrival of a new character soon - he just needs a little more work - and we'll finally get to welcome the 31st character into the game....
Meghan Markle Hits First Red Carpet as a Royal at The Lion King Premiere Meghan Markle is feeling right at home on the red carpet at the U.K. premiere for The Lion King. The former actress turned Duchess of Sussex returned to her glamorous roots on Sunday......
New York City experienced the biggest blackout since The Great Blackout of 1977 A widespread power outage Saturday evening left much of Manhattan, including the Upper West Side and Rockefeller Center, without electricity. ...
Algeria v Nigeria: Africa Cup of Nations semi-final – live! Africa Cup of Nations semi-final news from the game in CairoRedemption awaits Youcef Belaili if form holds against NigeriaAnd you can mail Simon or tweet him with your thoughts 7.58pm BST Anthems sung, the game will be under way in a few moments. 7.5...
#TheBreakaway with Jonathan Vaughters - Team Ineos are a different beast without Froome "Dan Lloyd, Brian Smith and Orla Chennaoui discuss Stage 9 of the Tour de France and are joined by Jonathan Vaughters, Team Manager of EF Education First. Vaughters addresses the change of focus for the team after Tejay Van Garderen's crash (01:10), ...
| Van der Walt, Hartley master downwind runs to claim spoils Brandon vd Walt grabbed his first win of the Bay Union Open Ocean Surfski Challenge while Bridgitte Hartley cemented her place on top of the women's standings....
Jeffrey Epstein sex trafficking case draws his New Mexico ranch into investigation A sprawling desert ranch south of Santa Fe is tied to a New Mexico state attorney general investigation targeting financier Jeffrey Epstein, according to reports....
Mountain Dew Amp Game Fuel Is Terrible I was at the grocery store this week with my girlfriend. We were buying some food and drinks for the upcoming week. I also was feeling sick and was in a fuzzy state of mind. When we got to the self-checkout I noticed something in the fridges near the...
'Shop Contest: Switch Lites For Everyone The Switch Mini Lite was revealed and it looks sooooo good. I already own a Switch and never play it in portable mode, but I still want one of these brightly colored mini consoles. And I bet others do too. So......
| 'What protests?': Sudan's desert nomads untouched by Bashir's downfall Not far from Sudan's capital Khartoum, the epicentre of an uprising that toppled autocratic ruler Omar al-Bashir, dozens of camel traders are oblivious to the country's biggest political upheaval in decades....
Prime Day 2019: What it is, when it starts, how to participate Digital Black Friday is coming — and the crowds are online, not on line. The online blowout sale that is Amazon Prime Day 2019 will span 48 hours this year, beginning at midnight. The two-day discount even running Monday through Tuesday is open exclu...
De Blasio insists he was in charge while campaigning during NYC power outage Mayor de Blasio made excuses Sunday for being almost 1,000-miles away as 73,000 New Yorkers went without power on Saturday night. As a 60-block swath of Manhattan suffered a five-hour blackout — with many trapped in elevators or subways, and ev...
|MoonwalkrecordingsoffergiantreturnsforformerNASAintern Gary George found the original videotapes capturing the Apollo 11 lunar landing at a government surplus auction while working at the NASA Johnson Space Center in 1973....
Mexico's Economy Falters as U.S. Chugs Along Mexico is slipping toward a recession even as the U.S. economy continues to grow, the first time in 25 years that the neighbors' economic cycles have fallen sharply out of sync....
The Huawei fallout continues: 'Hundreds' of US layoffs, plus yet another OS name It doesn't seem like things will be back to normal for Huawei anytime soon, despite President Trump last month seeming warm to a reprieve for the Chinese tech giant. But not only is Huawei still shut out from buying parts it needs from the US a...
Get a call from the Social Security Administration? It could be an imposter scam _____ Con artists tell lies — it's how they make a living. Calling people and pretending to be with a government agency — IRS, Social Security, ICE, DEA, or the local sheriff's department — is a ruse that's been lucrative for years. But these imposte...
Support for impeachment falls as 2020 heats up _____ WASHINGTON – None of the 20-plus Democrats running for president have wanted to make impeaching President Trump a central focus of their campaign. That is, until last week when billionaire businessman and impeachment advocate Tom Steyeren...
Japan earns first Group One win in Grand Prix de Paris on Bastille Day • Colt's Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe odds widely cut to 9-1• Trainer Aidan O'Brien says 'We were very happy with him'Japan has the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe firmly on his agenda, after an exploratory trip here resulted in victory in the Grand Prix de P...
Inside Joe Jonas and Sophie Turner's Luxurious Honeymoon in the Maldives Slide on over to check out these amazing images from Sophie Turner and Joe Jonas' amazing tropical honeymoon. Following their second wedding late last month in France, the two......
The 2020 Ford Mustang Shelby GT500 Sounds as Loud as it Looks It's been a hot minute since the GT500 was launched, but we haven't really seen it run in anger until last weekend's Goodwood Festival of Speed. Thanks to a few intrepid car spotters, who lugged cameras and microphones out to the hill, we can see a b...
Djokovic tops Federer in epic Wimbledon final Novak Djokovic outlasted Roger Federer in five sets Sunday to repeat as the Wimbledon men's champion for the second time and win his fifth title at the All England Club....
Romo successfully defends celebrity golf title Tony Romo completed a wire-to-wire victory Sunday in the American Century Championship for his second consecutive win in the celebrity tournament at Edgewood Tahoe Golf Course....
Giannis pledges to extend reign at Milwaukee fete Giannis Antetokounmpo took the stage, grabbed a microphone with the Bucks' moniker on it and asked the crowd for three favors: show up for every game next season, pose for a crowded selfie and don't call him the MVP anymore -- until he wins it again....
Texas woman lived with her mother's rotting corpse for past three years A Texas woman was arrested by cops after they found that she was living in a home with her dead mother for three years after the elderly woman was left on her bedroom floor to die, officials said. Delissa Navonne Crayton, 47, was busted last week and...
New Zealand begins gun buyback after mosque shootings Hundreds of New Zealand gun owners have surrendered their weapons in exchange for cash — the first of many gun buybacks in the country after the deadly Christchurch mosque shootings. More than $669,000 worth of now-banned weapons were handed ov...
Nikki Haley slams 'disgusting' silence from Dems after Mexican flag raised at ICE facility Former United Nations ambassador Nikki Haley condemned prominent Democrats for staying mum, after protesters demonstrating outside a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) facility last week pulled down the star-spangled banner and flew the f...
Asian shares, dollar brace for China GDP Asian shares started the week on a softer note on Monday after posting their first weekly decline since early June, while the dollar was on the defensive ahead of key economic data from China....
Pence: Border facility conditions are unacceptable Vice President Mike Pence saw the overcrowded conditions facing migrant adults and children in Customs and Border Protection custody firsthand Friday, becoming the highest-ranking member of the Trump administration to visit two federal detention cent...
New Zealand fans agonize after defeat in thrilling Cricket world cup final With the match tied after England were bowled out for 241 with the last ball of the 50th over, both teams scored 15 runs in a nerve-jangling Super Over. But England won because they had hit more boundaries in the match....
Two Economists Fuel Democratic Debate Over How Far Left to Go William Darity Jr. and Darrick Hamilton tout slavery reparations and guaranteed jobs to address the racial wealth gap. Their theories on 'stratification economics' have helped shape the rhetoric and platforms of several presidential candidates....
Horner: Verstappen finish was "quite incredible" after Vettel crash Red Bull Formula 1 boss Christian Horner says it was "quite incredible" Max Verstappen finished the British Prix after being taken out of a podium place by Sebastian Vettel...
Tensions Mount in Hong Kong as Protesters Call for Chief Executive Carrie Lam's Resignation (HONG KONG) — Police in Hong Kong fought with protesters on Sunday as they broke up a demonstration by thousands of people demanding the resignation of the semi-autonomous Chinese territory's chief executive and an investigation into comp...
Huawei Plans Extensive Layoffs at Its US Operations: Report Huawei is planning extensive layoffs in the US as the company grapples with its US blacklisting, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter....
| 'When they chant Roger, I hear Novak' - Djokovic Novak Djokovic admitted his epic, record-breaking Wimbledon final triumph over Roger Federer on Sunday was the "toughest mentally" he had ever endured....
| Hsieh, Strycova win women's doubles at Wimbledon Czech Barbora Strycova gained consolation for her loss in the singles semi-finals, partnering Taiwan's Hsieh Su-Wei to land the women's doubles title at Wimbledon....
UK says it will release seized Iranian oil tanker if Iran guarantees the vessel won't breach European sanctions Stringer/REUTERS Britain will facilitate the release of a seized Iranian tanker if Iran can provide guarantees the vessel would not breach European sanctions on oil shipments to Syria. UK Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt said he held a "constructive c...