Our Reception children enjoy learning together, through a play based curriculum which includes significant emphasis on learning to read, learning to write and learning to use numbers confidently.
Our Early Years area is bright, inviting and celebrates the children's achievements. We have a purpose built outdoor learning environment which the children access all year round.
\u200BKey Stage 1 builds on the learning that has taken place in the Foundation Stage. Staff work closelely together to ensure continuity from the children's Reception Year into Year 1. During Year 1 the children are introduced to more structured Literacy and Numeracy learning sessions. We encourage and develop the children's individual skills across a broad range of learning activities to enable them to achieve their set targets at the end of Year 2.
\u200BOur children work in bright, inviting and stimulating classrooms which encourage a positive attitude to learning and achieving. We aim to develop children's physical, emotional, spiritual, creative, moral and social skills in addition to their academic success. Significant emphasis is also placed on independence in preparation for Key Stage 3 and further. We expect our Year 5 and Year 6 children to take on roles of responsibility within school and to be willing to assist in the wider school community.
Our school doors open at 8.40am and we welcome all children into their classrooms ready for registration at 8.55am. Our school day ends at 3.30pm for all classes.
Children in Foundation Stage and Key Stage 1 have a morning break from 10.30am until 10.45am, lunch is from 12 noon to 1.15pm and their afternoon break is from 2.30pm until 2.45pm.
Children in Key Stage 2 have a morning break from 11.00am until 11.15am and lunch is from 12.15pm until 1.15pm. On Fridays the children have a ten minute break in the afternoon.
Weldon CE Primary School has been awarded Enhanced Healthy School status and we encourage all children to bring in a piece of fruit/vegetable for their snack at break. Younger children receive a free portion of fruit/vegetable as part of the Government initiative. Milk is available to order for all children and is free to those under five years of age.
If you would like any further information regarding our children's learning please do not hesitate to contact our Executive Headteacher, Mrs Howarth.