"The Boot Camp that will change the future of your family's health forever!"
This is a 30 day intensive course to learn how to transform the eating habits of you and your family to help you achieve optimal health, energy, and weight.
* Do you ever wish your kids or spouse ate healthier?
* Do you wish you could find time to feed yourself and your family healthier food?
* Do you or other family members struggle to reach an ideal weight?
* Do you crave sugar and have the desire to cut down on the amount of sugar in your family's diet?
\u200Bimplementing the principles of clean eating in your home.
This 30 day course will be held using the convient platform of a private facebook group and have 4 focus weeks.
Each day for 30 days a mini lesson will be presented, an applicable action step to implement, and a discussion prompt. You will learn, create instant change in you and your family's life, and reap the powerful benefit of support from other's making the same powerful change in their home.
Throughout the course you are encouraged to post questions and progress in the group page to not only get my support, but also the answers and the support of your new community. I am also available for private personal consultation as needed.
Over the course of 10 years I have transitioned my family from a diet focused on bagels, peanut butter sandwiches, crackers, and pasta to foods that pack in infinitely more nutrition. The height of my family's change was made when tasked with transitioning a baby to solids, feeding our 6 year old son, and my hubby. Now all members of the family eat a diet focused on veggies, fruits, protein, and healthy fats each meal of the day.
Meal prepping and preparing becomes so much simpler when all family members are being fed the same nutrious food. Our healthy, energy, and weight has never been better. The greatest victory is seeing my 7 year old son transform his eating habits with knowledge and joy to ones of an exceptional healthy adult.
I understand where you are friends, I know feeding a family can be challenging. The good news is I have persevered, made extraordinary change, and have now compiled all of my clean eating success strategies into one 30 day bootcamp. This is the best and fastest way to create a clean eating revolution in you and your family's life. 2017 is going to be amazing with this incredible jumpstart on working toward your ultimate health, energy, and weight!
The MKFitPassion Boot Camp and the opportunity to create amazing transformation in your families eating habits and health is only $97 and a new session starts the first Monday of each month.
If you find a friend to join you in registering you will both get save 25% off of your registration.
\u200BThat means you will both only pay $73 for the entire course!
100% satifisfied with your experience.
Please use the registration area below to seize a spot in this incredible transformative group!
"Investing in your own health will never be a waste of time or money.
It will however make you the most extraordinary version of yourself.
marvel at how you will transform inside & out!"