Richard III on The Son Rise Morning Show
I'll be on the Son Rise Morning Show this morning at 7:45 a.m. Eastern/6:45 a.m. Central time to talk about the religious services and controversy about the reinterment of the remains of King Richard III, the last king of the House of York. You can listen live here.
As background I offer these two links: my comments on the events, and William Oddie's from The Catholic Herald!
By the way, the schedule is:
*Sunday, 22 March 2015
Leicester Cathedral
The remains of Richard III will be received into the cathedral and an invited congregation will pray a service of Compline where Cardinal Vincent Nichols, the Archbishop of Westminster, will preach.
*Monday, 23 March 2015
Holy Cross Church, Leicester
Cardinal Nichols will celebrate Mass for the repose of the soul – a 'Requiem Mass' – of Richard III in Holy Cross Church, the Catholic parish church and Dominican priory in Leicester city centre. The choir from St Barnabas' Cathedral, the Cathedral of the Diocese of Nottingham, will sing at this Mass, which will be open to the public.
*Thursday, 26 March 2015
The mortal remains of Richard III will be reinterred in Leicester Cathedral, with an invited congregation and in the presence of the Most Revd Justin Welby, Archbishop of Canterbury and senior clergy from both dioceses, and other Christian denominations alongside representatives of the World Faiths.
*Friday, 27 March 2015
Invited guests from across the city of Leicester and the county of Leicestershire will gather in the Cathedral to mark the end of King Richard's journey and the sealed tomb will be revealed to the public.
The regular pattern of morning and evening prayer and the Eucharist will be kept by Leicester Cathedral throughout these days as we prepare for the King's reinterment. A number of these services will have a very special character. All these services will be open to the public.
On Tuesday 24 March the Dominican friars will sing Vespers, the Catholic Church's evening service, in Leicester Cathedral; this is in addition to the daily celebration of Mass and the divine office in Holy Cross Church.
On Wednesday 25 March, Father David Rocks OP, the parish priest at Holy Cross Church, will preach at the lunchtime Eucharist in Leicester Cathedral.
Labels: Holy Cross Priory, Leicester Cathedral, Richard III, Son Rise Morning Show, the English Reformation, The Tudor Dynasty
Next Week at Wichita's Spiritual Life Center
Mozart's Salzburg Church Sonatas
WWI Memoir: "Testament of Youth"
"The Man Who Wouldn't be King"--and Should Have Be...
Hebrew Manuscripts at Fox's Corpus Christi
The Real Tudors Exhibition and Review
Book Review: The Heresy of Formlessness
Unfree Speech at Berkeley
Today in Oklahoma City
William Oddie on Next Year's Interment of the Cath...
Undoing the Whig Tradition: Mary, Queen of Scots
The Ordinariate as Rebuilder of "Authentic English...
The Ordinariate at Our Lady of Walsingham
Reading Slowly; Reading Out Loud
Dawson's Six Ages
William Oddie on Father Ian Ker's "Newman on Vatic...
Our Lady of Sorrows
Lift High the Cross--The Triumph of the Cross
A Catholic Colony Before Maryland
An Interesting Assignment for England's Primate
The Holy Name of Mary and Vienna
Portrait of St. Thomas More's Meg, in Miniature
Coming Next Month from Mayapple Books
England=ISIS; Irish Catholics=Middle Eastern Chris...
Blessed Frederic Ozanam in Paris
Destruction and iconclasm in the English Reformati...
Next Month, at Wichita's Spiritual Life Center
Diarmaid MacCulloch on Borman's Cromwell
Leanda de Lisle on Borman's Cromwell
Mistaken Identity in Bavaria
Book Review: The Last White Rose
The Fire of London and the Gregorian Calendar
WWI Poet, Siegfried Sassoon, RIP